# Gearbest-Ecommerce - Data Generation, Wrangling, EDA

Data collected from an ecommerce website 'Gearbest' using web scraping. Cleaned the data and performed EDA.

## Project Description

This project gives a high level understanding on how data can be generated by web scraping, performing data wrangling and giving it a clean look, performing Exploratory Data Analysis and finally drawing insights from the data.

## Table of Contents
1. Installation
2. Dependencies
3. Project Stages
  1. Data Scraping Details
  2. Output Data
  3. Data Preprocessing
  4. Cleaned Data
  5. Exploratory Data Analysis
  6. Insights
4. Contact

## Installation


## Dependencies
- Python 3.12.7
- Requests 2.32.3
- Beautiful Soup 4.12.3
- Pandas 2.2.3
- Matplotlib 3.9.2
- Seaborn 0.13.2

## Project Stages
1. Data Scraping Details: Data is scrapped from an ecommerce website Gearbest where many products belonging to different product categories. Dataset of 10,035 rows and 5 columns is generated.
2. Output Data: A dataframe of shape 10,035 , 5 is generated. Columns consists of Model name, Reviews, Likes, Price, Category. The data is further processed to remove duplicates, missing values etc to get a clean data.
3. Data Preprocessing: The data scraped from the website is an unclean data which is preprocessed to get a clean data. Missing values were either filled or removed completely depending upon the available data, duplicates were removed, unnecessary specials characters were removed from each and every column that were squeezed into the strings, columns data type were changed.
4. Cleaned Data: After going through all the processing stages of cleaning, a clean data is generated which is then saved as a csv/excel file.
5. EDA: Using python libraries matplotlib and seaborn, EDa is performed. Univariate and bivariate analysis is done with various plots like relational, categorical.
6. Insights: Using EDa, various conclusions were drawn about the data.

## Contact
For any queries, contact 'officialsumitsharma1@gmail.com'.
  

